but first impressions can be deceptive
this isn't the parent this is a Scorpio
Venator
a predator
the skeleton found at the nest site was
almost certainly an esper a der preying
on the hatchlings
the hatchlings real parrot and the owner
of the enormous vertebra is
Argentinosaurus
a plant-eating giant the dwarfs
everything around it
from the bones that were found we've
calculated that Argentinosaurus was a
colossal 35 metres long and weighed as
much as 75 times
when born the hatchlings themselves
weigh a paltry 5 kilograms and need to
fend for themselves immediately
from studying the embryos and looking at
the bones of the adults we know that the
growth of these giants was phenomenal
over 40 years they grow from five
kilograms to an astonishing seventy-five
thousand kilograms at their peak it's
been calculated they grow up to 40
kilograms every day the dinosaur embryos
are so well preserved we can see they
already have their teeth in preparation
for a lifetime of eating
but becoming a giant takes more than
simply turning tons of food into muscle
it's about the success and survival of
the species over millions of years
one way to increase the chances of
survival is by having lots of offspring
and the best way to do that is by laying
eggs
lots of them the nest site in Patagonia
stretches for an astonishing 15
kilometers and contains tens of
thousands of eggs and the site was used
continuously for hundreds of thousands
of years